W-21066693-dataweave-transformation-policy-lds (#992)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.12/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-dataweave-transformation.adoc

= DataWeave Transformation Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: dataweave, transformation, header transformation, body transformation, script evaluation, api gateway, flex gateway, gateway, policy

> :page-aliases: api-manager::dataweave-transformation-policy.adoc, policies::policies-included-dataweave-transformation.adoc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Probably added by cursor, not need though.

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy name | DataWeave Transformation

> >s|Summary      | Transforms or evaluates request and response messages by using DataWeave scripts for header transformation, body transformation, or script evaluation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>s|Summary      | Transforms or evaluates request and response messages by using DataWeave scripts for header transformation, body transformation, or script evaluation
```

>s|Category | Transformation

> >s| First Flex Gateway version available | 1.12

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>s| First Flex Gateway version available | v1.12.0
```

.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes

> | `400` - The DataWeave script failed to execute or returned an invalid result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `400` - The DataWeave script failed to execute or returned an invalid result
```
Not sure on this one.

|===

== Summary

> The DataWeave Transformation policy modifies or validates HTTP messages with DataWeave scripts. It uses three distinct policy variants. Each has its own `policyRef` and config. Apply one or more to an API as needed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DataWeave Transformation policy modifies or validates HTTP messages with DataWeave scripts. It uses three distinct policy variants. Apply one or more to an API as needed:
```

> Header transformation:: Transforms request or response headers with a DataWeave script. The script receives headers and the message body, and it returns a `map` of header names to values. In the request or response phase as set by `requestFlow`, the gateway removes existing headers and runs the script with header bindings. The script output is a `map`. Each entry becomes a header. For multi-value headers, use a list of values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Header transformation:: Transforms request or response headers with a DataWeave script. The script receives headers and the message body, and it returns a `map` of header names to values. In the request or response, the gateway removes existing headers and runs the script with header bindings. The script output is a `map`. Each entry becomes a header. For multi-value headers, use a list of values.
```

Not sure what a multi-value header is, I could also just not know.

> Body transformation:: Transforms request or response body content with a DataWeave script. The script receives headers and the body, and it streams the transformed output. In the request or response phase as set by `requestFlow`, the gateway processes the body in streaming mode and automatically updates `Content-Type` and `Content-Length`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Body transformation:: Transforms request or response body content with a DataWeave script. The script receives headers and the body, and it streams the transformed output. In the request or response, the gateway processes the body in streaming mode and automatically updates `Content-Type` and `Content-Length`.
```

> Script evaluation:: Evaluates a DataWeave script on the request or response headers and body to allow or block the message. The script returns an object with a boolean `success` value. If `success` is `false`, the object includes a `response` with `statusCode`, `body`, and `headers`. In the request or response phase as set by `requestFlow`, the gateway runs the script. If `success` is `false`, the gateway stops processing and returns the response defined in the `response` object. If `success` is `true`, the message continues.

Reviewer: If `success` is `false`, the object includes a `response` with `statusCode`, `body`, and `headers`. In the request or response phase as set by `requestFlow`, the gateway runs the script. If `success` is `false`, the gateway stops processing and returns the response defined in the `response` object.

Honestly, this section is a bit difficult to read.

Reviewer: Lokking at the sections below, I think you could shorten the descriptions here and give technical details in the lower sections.

Like, I think you could fully remove the following info here:

The script returns an object with a boolean `success` value. If `success` is `false`, the object includes a `response` with `statusCode`, `body`, and `headers`. In the request or response phase as set by `requestFlow`, the gateway runs the script. If `success` is `false`, the gateway stops processing and returns the response defined in the `response` object. If `success` is `true`, the message continues.

Reviewer: Also, I would add target links from here to the lower sections.

> If a script execution error occurs, for example an invalid output format or runtime error, the gateway returns `400` and terminates the request or response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a script execution error occurs, such as an invalid output format or runtime error, the gateway returns a `400` error code and terminates the request or response.
```

> image::dataweave-transformation-diagram.png["A flow chart illustrating the process of setting the DataWeave Transformation policy for clients accessing an API through a proxy"]

Reviewer: Where did this image come from? There are some typos in it.

Honestly, I don't think I would personally use it, I don't think is exactly demonstrates the policy.

== Configure Header Transformation Policy Parameters

The DataWeave script returns a `map` where keys are header names and values are header values. For multi-value headers, use a list of values. Apply the transformation to the request or the response. Optionally, the script receives the message body.

In Local Mode, apply the policy via declarative configuration using the `request-header-transformation` policy. In Managed Flex Gateway and Flex Gateway Connected mode, apply the policy from the UI and select the header transformation type.

> include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=configFileTitleOnly]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=configFileTitleOnly+1]
```

I think, but confirm, it should be at ===, don't know if that's exactly how to do it. Should be done everywhere.

----
- policyRef:
    name: request-header-transformation
  config:
    script: <string>        // REQUIRED - DataWeave script
    requestFlow: <string>   // REQUIRED - "onRequest" or "onResponse"
    requiresPayload: <boolean>  // OPTIONAL, default: false
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
|Parameter | Required or Optional | Default Value | Description

| `script`
| Required
| —
| A DataWeave script that returns a `map` of header names to values. The script receives `attributes.headers`. If `requiresPayload` is true, it also receives the message body in the `payload` binding.

| `requestFlow`
| Required
| —
| The phase when the policy runs: `onRequest` for request headers and body, or `onResponse` for response headers and body.

| `requiresPayload`
| Optional
| false
| If true, the script receives the message body in the `payload` binding. The gateway buffers the body for the transformation.
|===

> === Header Transformation Resource Configuration Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Header Transformation Resource Configuration Example
```

----
- policyRef:
    name: request-header-transformation
  config:
    script: |
      %dw 2.0
      output application/java
      ---
      {
        "X-Request-Id": attributes.headers["x-request-id"] default uuid(),
        "X-Forwarded-Host": attributes.headers["host"]
      }
    requestFlow: "onRequest"
    requiresPayload: false
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add === level for UI parameters
```

Should be done everywhere

Author: I think the table at the bottom covers all the UI parameters. Maybe we can clarify the parameters apply to the three types?

----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
|Parameter | Required or Optional | Default Value | Description

| `script`
| Required
| —
| A DataWeave script that transforms the body. The script receives `attributes.headers` and the `payload`. If needed, declare the output MIME type in the script, such as `output application/json`.

| `requestFlow`
| Required
| —
| The phase when the policy runs: `onRequest` for the request body, or `onResponse` for the response body.
|===

=== Body Transformation Resource Configuration Example

----
- policyRef:
    name: request-body-transformation
  config:
    script: |
      %dw 2.0
      output application/json
      ---
      payload mapObject (value, key) -> { (key): value }
    requestFlow: "onRequest"
----

== Configure Script Evaluation Policy Parameters

The gateway evaluates a DataWeave script to allow or block the message. The script accesses headers and the body. It returns an object with a boolean `success` value. If `success` is `false`, the script returns a `response` object with `statusCode`, `body`, and `headers`. The gateway sends that status code, body, and headers to the client as the immediate HTTP response.

> Result format: Success: `{ "success": true }`. Error: `{ "success": false, "response": { "body": "...", "headers": {}, "statusCode": 400 } }`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Result format: 

* Success: `{ "success": true }`
* Error: `{ "success": false, "response": { "body": "...", "headers": {}, "statusCode": 400 } }`
```
